Let's write a test for our user controller class.
So this controller class is what we will be writing the test for.
So like we had mentioned earlier that I'm
going to create a folder called controllers under the test demo package,
and that's where I'm going to write a user controller test,
because that is how we would do it.
So controllers and what I'm going to
do is I'm going to add a test class called user controller test.
So here we'll learn a few more concepts or details of a mocks.
So the first thing that I need to do is I need to create an object of user controller.
The reason why I want to do that is I want to be able to use this object to
call the methods of the userController class and verify them or test them.
So the other thing that I'm going to need is a user repository.
So I have the userRepository and I will call it userRepo.
Now I'm going to call mock on this.
So remember we had mentioned that mocks is going to replace
the actual instance or the actual resource connection or the resource,
so that is exactly what I'm doing.
So this line is going to create a mock object, in here.
So it will not create a real object to user repository,
and that's how you create mocks.
So I press option return again.
That is a shortcut for interlogy for importing the mock or any other imports,
and the other class I'm going to need is Cartcontroller.
I apologize it's going to be CartRepository.
So I'm going to call it CartRepository,
and I'm going to mock that as a type too fast, CartRepository.class.
The next thing that I would do is I'm going to write a before method.
As you remember, before method is called before every single test method.
So here I have done half the work for you,
so when you write the rest of the test cases here,
it's going to be used for them as well.
So in this setup,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to create
all the things or all the objects that need to be run before every method.
Let's say that I want to create a test and the test is create user happy path.
Now this is something that you would hear a lot of times in testing.
It's called happy path,
and what that means is that it is the happy use-case,
or the positive use case,
or the very bare minimum positive use case that we need to run.
So this falls in the sanity case again,
and I'm going to,
so the reason why I added exception is because IntelliJ prompted me to do that,
so this is my test method.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to,
first of all, create an encoder.
So let me show you what I'm trying to do here.
So the create user method,
this is what we're trying to test.
So let's look at it,
what it does is that it creates a user,
it sets the username,
it creates a card,
it takes for password,
it sets the password,
sets the card and then saves it.
So let's create one happy case where we would be doing all of this.
So here we're going to create a user request,
and I'm going to call it r for short right now.
New create user.
It's going to create an instance of it,
I'm going to set the password.
Actually, I'm going to set the username first and let me call the test,
and I'm going to set the password as well.
Let me call this Test Password.
There is another field that I need to populate,
which is confirm password,
which is the same as the set password,
sorry, which is the same as the password.
So I set all the three values here.
Now what I'm going to do is I need a response,
so I'm going to use the user controller and
call the actual method that we will be testing,
which is the createUser.
I'm now going to assign this to a variable and I'm going to call it response.
So as IntelliJ prompted me to make it final,
I'm going to make it final.
Now I'm going to pass the object that I just created,
which is r. The reason why I added r is because I wanted to show another concept that,
or another feature of IntelliJ,
but I would do it at the end.
So now I have response,
and what I can do is I can now run assertions on this response.
So I have assert NotNull,
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to put response in it,
and I would add the junit assertNotNull in here.
The next thing that I want to assert is that my request was successful,
which means that I got a 200,
200 HTTP response status code.
So I'm going to assert equals 200, which is the expected,
and the next one is going to be the actual so response.getStatusCodeValue,
and I imported that as well.
The next thing that I can assert here is something from the user section.
So I'm going to get the user and I'm going to create an object out of it,
and I'm going to get the response,
get it's a body,
and now I have the user body,
sorry, the response body or the user.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to run some more assertions on that,
which is assertNotNull on the user,
so and then I can run a assertNotEquals,
or actually I would just do assertEquals.
I'm going to check the response.
The first check that I'm going to do is I'm going to check that this is not null.
The second thing that I want to test is that the ID.
So I'm going to run assertEquals zero,
u.getID because that's the first value, the ID value.
I'm going to verify that the username is this because that's what I'd said earlier.
So this is my expected,
and I'm going to put u.getUsername assertEquals.
I can just test the password section as well.
I can run a lot of tests on this,
but this is just the basic or the primary or the sanity test case which just helps us to
verify that the basic functionality of createUser works as expected.
That's pretty much it. Actually, I have
finished as much testing as I wanted to do over here.
So now I have a sanity test
for our createUser controller class,but what I don't have is the full setup.
So let me complete the full setup.
I need an object for this which is the UserController.
What I need to do is,
I need to call the TestUtils and injectOjects and userRepo.
Here, I injected the userRepo object and I'm going to do the same for
cart as well as I'm going to do it for the encoder as well.
I haven't mocked it, so I need to do that.
I haven't seen this private.
So now I need BCryptPasswordEncoder, encoder equals mock.
I have all the mock object.
I need to pass the cartRepository and bCrypt.
Let me go back to the controller class to see the exact name, bCryptPasswordEncoder.
So my entire setup is complete and I finished the first test method.
So let me explain to you what we just did over here and then do a little bit of stubbing.
So what I did over here is that I created the TestUtils.
I injected the objects of the userRepo,of
the cartRepo and the encoder into our UserController because that is the object.
So this is our class.
The object requires these three Autowired fields.
So that is what my TestUtils does,
it gets these all fields injected into my user controller object.
Simple. The next thing that I did was I created
a happy_path or a sanity test case where I created a user,
I completed the setup,
I called the method that is under test,
and I asserted a few things on it.
So that completes the test.
However, I have one thing to show to you which was stubbing.
Now, what that means is that I'm going to now call or replace
a certain piece of the code that is being run over here
with the value that I want to add to it.
So I'm going to preset it so that when my test runs,
instead of the value of that particular piece of code,
it will put whatever I said.
It's easier if I just show it to you then try to explain it in just long sentences here.
So encoder.encode, this is what I need to preset.
So it's prompting that I add the when, import that out.
So now, what this says is that every time encoder.encode testtest is called,
I can replace that value by calling thenReturn on this and put any value of my choice.
So I'm going to say thisIsHashed.
That's it. This is an example of stubbing.
These are all our mocks.
We are doing this using Mockito.
Now, let's try to run this and see what happens.
I see at the bottom it says it failed.
It says the test failed in Actual.
Let's do a live debug on this one and see what happens and why is this happening,
or maybe we can just take a look at the code again and try to figure out what happened.
So the test password is testPassword and we are encoding testtest.
So what we need to encode is testPassword because that is the password that is set.
Whenever that value is encountered from user create,
which is here, line 54,
it will return thisIsHashed.
Now this is the value that is going to be returned,
which means that when I'm asserting I don't need to test it against testPassword,
but I would verify it against thisisHashed.
So the reason why it says null in the Actual is because it was looking for thisIsHashed,
but the value that I was trying to pull was getPassword on whatever
was the previous value which is testPassword and that we
hadn't stopped which is why it gave that error.
Now, let's try to run this and see what happens.
So this is perfect. So we ran our first successful test in the e-commerce application.
I hope you're able to add more test cases to
this and bring the code coverage to an 80 percent
because currently the code coverage that is existing with one test case here is this.